---
title: "Are the Children of Immigrants more Progressive?"
excerpt: "Working Paper - 2024"
collection: portfolio
---
### Exploring Political Orientations among a Second-Generation Cohort
Working Paper
## Abstract
As the United States moves toward becoming a majority-minority country, understanding the political attitudes of second-generation immigrants—children of immigrant parents—becomes increasingly important. This paper investigates the partisan and policy attitudes of American youth, specifically focusing on second-generation Latinx and Asian American individuals. Utilizing unique survey data from a national youth sample, I examine how generational status influences political orientations, particularly among 16- and 17-year-olds. The analysis reveals that second-generation youth tend to exhibit more progressive political attitudes than their peers with two U.S.-born parents, even when controlling for key demographic variables such as parental education, religious identity, and gender. While both Latinx and Asian American second-generation youth demonstrate a trend towards progressive partisanship, differences emerge in the factors that contribute to these orientations. For Latinx youth, second-generation status remains a strong predictor of progressive attitudes, even when accounting for additional socializing influences like immigrant identity and experiences with immigration policies. In contrast, Asian American youth show a more complex relationship, where demographic variables like parental education and religious identity play a more significant role. These findings underscore the importance of studying the intersection of race and generation in shaping political socialization and contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of the evolving American electorate.
